hey this is fresh towel Walker this
problem appeared on the Harvard
admissions test in 1869 a man bought a
watch a chain and a locket for two
hundred and sixteen dollars the watch
and lock it together cost three times as
much as the chain and the chain and lock
it together cost half as much as the
watch what was the price of each
problems like this are actually quite
popular on the Internet in that spirit
here is the same problem presented in
pictures can you figure out the price of
the watch the chain and the locket give
this prom a try and when you're ready
keep watching the video for the solution
so here are the first two equations the
second equation tells us that the sum of
the watch and the locket is equal to
three times the chain the first equation
also has the sum of the watch and the
locking so we can substitute in that the
sum of those is equal to three times the
chain we then add the value of the chain
so our first equation becomes three
chains plus one chain is equal to 216 so
we have four chains being equal to 216
so one chain will be one-fourth of that
which is equal to 54 we can now use this
value into our second and third
equations our second equation says the
watch and the lock is equal to three
times the chain this will be three times
54 which is 162
our next equation says two chains and
two lockets is equal to a watch two
chains is equal to two times 54 which is
equal to 108 the second equation here
gives the value of the wah
in terms of the locket so we can
substitute that into the first equation
so we have 108 plus two lockets plus one
more locket is equal to 162 will now
just focus on this last equation we have
108 plus 3 lockets is equal to 160 2 so
that means 3 lockets is equal to 160 2
minus 108 which is 54 and therefore 1
locket is equal to 1/3 of that which is
18 so we've solved for the chain and the
locket we now have to solve for the
value of the watch but we know all three
items together add up to 216 so we can
substitute in our values for the chain
and the locket we then can solve for the
watch as equal to 216 - 54 - 18
therefore the value of the watch is
equal to 144 and that is the answer did
you figure it out thanks for watching
this video please subscribe to my
channel I make videos on math and game
theory you can catch me on my blog mind
your decisions which you can follow on
Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch me on social media at pressure
soccer and if you like this video please
check out my books there are links in
the video description